ever since wargames , the first real computer hacking movie , hollywood has attempted to produce more and more films about hacking . 
these films usually show the audience a look into computers that really is not impossible and is usually ridiculous . 
if it's not this , the exaggeration about what is real is usually greater than you would expect . 
hackers is guilty of all of these crimes . 
to anyone familiar with computers and/or the internet , most of the movie is so incredibly stupid that you can't take it anymore . 
those of you who frequent one of the greatest sites on the world wide web , the internet movie database , are probably aware of the section for movies entitled " goofs " . 
this is the section for mistakes in the movies . 
well , imdb sums up hackers extremely well with the first goof listed : " generally ill-informed and ridiculous to the extreme regarding the capabilities of computers and technology " . 
and truthfully , this is one-hundred percent correct . 
the plot , obviously , centers around computer hacking . 
more specifically , it follows the exploits of dade murphy , a young computer hacker played by jonny lee miller . 
miller should be extremely thankful for the film trainspotting , because if it were not for that , who knows where his career would be now after hackers . 
the film opens with a young dade murphy being arrested for hacking computer systems . 
he was forbidden to use a computer until he turned eighteen years old . 
the film then picks up at that point , an eighteen year old dade murphy hacking away at the computer . 
dade later meets up with fellow hackers acid burn ( angelina jolie ) , cereal killer ( matthew lillard ) , lord nikon ( laurence mason ) , and the phantom phreak ( renoly santiago ) , who are basically trying to do what is next to impossible : hack the gibson computer and not get caught by the fbi . 
oh , and as a little sub-plot , dade also tries to woo acid burn , the only female hacker in the film . 
really , i can't think of much more to say about the film's plot aside from what i've said . 
it's just a bunch of computer geeks ( no , obsessive compulsive computer geeks a little too advanced for reality ) running around hacking computers and staying away from the fbi . 
thanks to this movie , the public unfamiliar with computers now has a distorted viewpoint of computers and what they can do . 
this movie makes computers look a little bit too advanced for their time , and the frivolous suggestions it makes are too many to list . 
to sum it up , hackers is a terrible computer film . 
if you're looking for a film about computers closer to what goes on in the real world , i suggest sneakers . 
although at times it too may seem a little far fetched , it should be much more believable than hackers to regular computer users . 
hopefully , this film didn't influence too many young computer users out to think they can do what is portrayed in this 105 minute waste of time . 
a remake of the 1978 warren beatty vehicle " heaven can wait " ( which in turn was a remake of " here comes mr . jordan " ) , " down to earth " tells the tale of lance barton ( chris rock , " lethal weapon iv " ) , a young black standup comic trying to win over the audience at harlem's apollo theater .
when he's taken to heaven prematurely by bumbling angel keyes ( eugene levy , " best in show " ) , his only recourse is to return in another body .
he chooses that of charles wellington , the tenth richest man in the united states .
of course , wellington is not only rich , but white and 53 years old , which makes lance's bid for closing night at the apollo , as well as his desire to woo suntee ( regina taylor , " jerry maguire " ) , a tad tricky .
the original elaine may/warren beatty script has been reworked by chris rock , lance crouther , ali leroi , and louis c . k .
to turn beatty's vehicle as a football player into rock's vehicle as a comic and add some racial humor .
as directed by chris weitz and paul weitz ( codirectors of " american pie " and costars of " chuck & buck " ) , the whole affair comes off as amateur hour .
initial scenes play like filmed line reading rehearsals .
production values are shoddy .
most serious of all is the use of rock when his wellington counterpart would have been more appropriate .
this problem is clearly attributable to the fact that the old white guy is never lip or action synched when he is on screen .
rock does get the chance to do some fun schtick , such as his turnaround on wellington's plans for a poor neighborhood hospital ( 'bullet in the head ?
you got a bed ! ' ) , but he's uneven when interacting with the rest of the cast .
regina taylor fares well amidst the mediocrity as the young activist who confusedly ends up falling for the man she believed to be her nemesis .
also good is frankie faison ( " hannibal " ) as whitney , lance's compassionate manager - the only human who's made privy to lance's body body switch .
chaz palminteri and levy are pretty much wasted as heaven's ambassadors .
another " best in show " alumnus , jennifer coolidge , is poorly used as wellington's cheating wife ( and shown several days apart wearing the same outfit ? ! ) and greg germann ( tv's " ally mcbeal , " " sweet november " ) continues display his sitcom roots as her lover and husband's lawyer .
mark addy ( " the full monty " ) is sorely underutilized as cisco , wellington's fake english butler .
stealing the show in every scene she's in is wanda sykes ( " the chris rock show " ) as wellington's disgruntled maid .
 " down to earth " is for chris rock fans only .
all others should go rent " heaven can wait " or truly be brought down to earth .
plot : a separated , glamorous , hollywood couple must pretend to reunite for a press junket of the last movie that they ever shot together .
kewl . . . now
i only wish that i could pretend never to have seen this movie . . .
critique : trite , unfunny , boring and a waste of everyone's talent .
how a premise with such zest and bite can turn into a movie that doesn't feature any chemistry , any real laughs , any surprises or any spice is beyond me .
how julia roberts is used solely as a " puppy dog " character , puttering around in the background while we endure the complete bitchiness of zeta-jones' character , who is not one bit funny or romantic ( two ideal ingredients in a " romantic comedy " ) , is also beyond me .
and why they chose john cusack , a great , quirky actor in his own right , to play the most bland , uninteresting and unfetching character ( with zero chemistry with either of his leads ) is further more , beyond me .
and to anybody who decided that this project was " funny " enough to greenlight featuring the talents mentioned above , along with billy crystal , christopher walker , seth green and stanley tucci . . . well ,
what can i say . . . i
just don't have the words .
so is this the worst movie that i've seen all year ?
no . but it definitely sucks and it's basically because . . . well ,
it's just not funny .
and for the record , allow me to state a few more problems with it .
it starts off slow , it's got no energy , it doesn't engage you with any of its characters ( julia barely gets somewhat interesting in the film , everyone else . . . lame ! ) , it utilizes way too many flashbacks to move the story forward , it's utterly predictable , standard , routine , see-through and uninteresting as a plot and it just sits there on the screen , big and ugly , waiting . . . waiting for you to laugh or find something in it that is amusing .
and then hank azaria shows up . . . aaaaaah , the film's savior ( mind you , some might be offended by his exaggeration of a stereotype , but that's another story altogether ) .
but when an experienced " voice " actor upstages all of the main stars in a summer " blockbuster " romantic comedy with an over-the-top antonio banderas accent , damn dude . . . your
film's in trouble ! !
rent this movie on video just to see what went wrong yourself .
the references to ricky ricardo and senor wences ( huh ! ? ) , the idio-plot points like when one of the characters goes on the roof to stretch his arms out and relax , but everyone believes that he's going to kill himself ( hardy-har-har ) and the cheap way of getting the audience to leave the theater laughing by bringing back a ball-sniffing dog that has no place being in the location at the end of the movie , well . . . i
could go on .
but i won't because i do still respect all of the actors in this film and actually did laugh at azaria , green and tucci's antics from time to time ( ironic , eh . . . what
about the leads , dammit ! ) and liked the premise behind the film ( before i saw the finished product , of course ) .
a dud all the way around .
btw , all the talk about this film was that julia roberts was to be in a fat suit for one scene ( her character is supposed to have lost 60 pounds ) , so when the scene finally came , i did get a little excited about what it might look like and then . . . well ,
it basically just looked like julia roberts in a fat suit !
ugh .
i think i'm gonna start drinking again after this lame-ass movie .
c'mon hollywood , enough with the crud !
where's joblo coming from ?
beautiful ( 1/10 ) - my best friend's wedding ( 7/10 ) - notting hill ( 5/10 ) - pretty woman ( 7/10 ) -runaway bride ( 5/10 ) - someone like you ( 4/10 ) - wedding planner ( 3/10 ) - when harry met sally ( 10/10 ) - you've got mail ( 4/10 )
it was once said that in order to truly enjoy some of todays movies or novels , you must suspend disbelief . 
however , there is a distinct separation between opening your mind to ridiculous situations and believing a bunch of flat lies .
it came as no surprise to me to learn that huntingburg , indiana ( where the film is set ) , does not have a mcdonald's , a sears store , a statue of a man on a horse , nor even a dam close by .
even if you can ignore these somewhat white lies ( even though the dam is crucial to hard rains plot ) ; there is still a bunch of things that just dont gel .
firstly , morgan freeman , possibly the greatest actor alive ( after such films as driving miss daisy , the shawshank redemption and se7en ) , was cast as a shifty goon intent on stealing enough money for a healthy retirement .
he _should_ have played the town sheriff , an experienced and somewhat intriguing policeman .
as a massive flood started by a dam accident overwhelms huntingburg , its residents presumably flee as the water level steadily increases .
i say presumably simply because we never know what happened to them ; and it seems a tad strange that an entire town ( with the exception of some folk who get introduced along the way ) can vanish before the flood has actually started .
but nether the less , armored guard couriers tom ( christian slater ) and his uncle are carrying three million dollars in the back of their van .
with a heavy rainstorm causing depressing conditions and slippery roads , it doesnt take long for the van to end up stuck amongst mud and water off the side of the road .
jim ( morgan freeman ) and a small gang of thieves locate the van and attempt to steal the three million dollars .
but of course tom is more than willing to save the day , so he takes the money and hides it elsewhere in town .
the local sheriff ( randy quaid , whom most will remember as the drunken pilot in id4 ) and a couple of police men investigate the situation , but their morals are soon overpowered by greediness as each character contemplates what he/she would do with their share of the three million dollars .
director mikael salomon has made sure that hard rain ends up turning everything topsy-turvy , and whilst the film may at first appear to be a definite goodies versus baddies ,  there are numerous twists in its plot that make this a slightly more enjoyable experience .
but by the time these interesting changes occur , its far too late in the film for them to have much affect .
hard rains continuos corniness and lack of originality washes out whatever hope the script may have had ; and although its cast is somewhat appealing most of its stars act well below par .
not at one stage capturing what could have been a fabulous on screen battle between slater and freeman , we are left to reminisce on films that dared to do something different and achieved more than what was expected .
such titles as broken arrow ( slater and john travolta ) and face/off ( nicholas cage and john travolta ) come to mind as films that have mastered silver screen confrontations .
strangely enough , they were both directed by john woo and both star john travolta .
we can forgive morgan freeman for giving a slightly disappointing performance since he is newish to the action genre , but christian slater could have achieved so much more had the amount of crummy one liners been reduced and some personality added to his character .
if you had asked me whether slater could perform well enough to substantially boost a movie prior to the release of broken arrow , my answer would have been a definite no .
i now know that he has no excuse , and _can_ do better ( if you dont believe me rent a copy of broken arrow from your local video store ) .
although hard rain never really works from the start , i somehow felt feelings of missed opportunity when the credits filled the screen .
the addition of an enticing sub-plot would have given the film time to breathe , rather than try to cram 96 minutes of action and disaster into a story that cant handle anything else .
despite the fact that hard rain fails on almost every account , if your standards are low enough you may find this to be a mildly enjoyable film .
no creative flair and no inventive scenes means that hard rain does not stand up well against its many competitors , but it doesnt really matter since the last thing you would want to do after shelling about $8 . 50 is compare this to other films .
there was probably a good reason that the warner bros . studio chose not to allow critics to view this steven seagal film when it first opened .
and , after seeing this piece of toxic waste , i now know why .
this movie is by far the worst offering that has hit the screen since possibly those ernest movies years ago .
fire down below centers its story on a little mining town in god's country , somewhere in eastern kentucky .
it's beauty and natural goodness is being slowly destroyed by an uncaring mining magnate ( kris kristopherson , who constantly looks like he wants to kill his agent for getting him this role ) .
it turns out that he's filling the mines throughout kentucky with toxic waste for a tidy profit .
seagal plays jack taggert , an aikido-versed , fighting machine , who is an agent with the epa .
no . . . not the cia nor the fbi nor the nsa .
it's the environmental protection agency .
i had no idea that epa agents were trained to be killers !
taggert is sent to find the perpetrators and to bring them to justice .
written by someone named jeb , i could already envision the stereotypes of incestuous relationships , banjo-picking preachers , and dumb-as-nails rednecks .
but the script puts seagal right smack dab in the middle of all of these scenarios as he tries to discreetly fit in .
seagal's idea of a disguise is a long-length $1000 leather jacket .
but to get closer to the kinfolk , he will fix people's porches for free .
that's another great epa asset - teaching agents how to fix porches .
slow and plodding , this project is a total mess .
the sometimes allure of watching seagal is watching him outmaneuver enemies that outnumber and outgun him like in under seige .
here , his bravado basically turns into bullyness .
townsfolk who are foolish enough to challenge seagal are quickly subdued .
fight scenes are quick and senseless and offers no enjoyment value whatsoever .
and his soap box message wears thin within the first 15 minutes .
the most annoying moment comes when he barges into the middle of a sunday church ceremony , gets behind the pulpit , and beseeches the townsfolk to take control of their lives and to help clean up the environment .
but the epitome of how moralistically mushy this film gets happens when the person responsible for the toxic dumping , kristopherson , meets up with seagal .
kristopherson asks seagal how much it will take for him to go away .
seagal gallantly replies : " i'll leave when you take the poison from the streams and the earth . "
i was expecting patriotic music to start blasting and a show of fireworks in the background .
this is truly nothing more than a pompous showcase for seagal's righteousness and narcissistic arrogance .
seagal has been vanguard in trying to bring a new genre into the filmplace , that of the enviro-thriller ( on deadly ground ) .
however , the message will never come across through poorly developed vehicles like this .
still , i believe in preserving mother earth , so save your $5 and please donate it instead to some worthy environmentally conscious charity .
there are some pretty impressive stars in lost in space - it's just that none of them happen to be actors .
the stars i'm referring to are the computer generated ones that make up the movie's " outer space " ; the stars that the less impressive actors hurtle thru as they try to find their way home .
yes , in terms of acting , the star power is .
 .
 .
well , more like a falling star .
kinda pretty , short-lived , and pretty much dead .
lost in space , as if you really didn't know , is based on the 60's sci-fi television series of the same name .
it's the year 2058 , and earth's precious resources are quickly being usurped by the needs of its massive population .
john robinson ( william hurt ) is the scientist leading a mission program to colonize a foreign planet .
earth's entire existance is contingent upon a successful mission , but nobody , whether it be john's family or hired battle pilot don west ( matt leblanc ) , seems too enthusiastic about leaving their home planet for several years .
john's family consists of his wife maureen ( mimi rogers ) , his atypical teenage daughter penny ( lacey chabert ) , his ingenious son will ( jack johnson ) , and his beautiful scientist daughter judy ( heather graham ) .
despite everyone's reluctance , the jupiter 2 spacecraft abandons planet earth and makes its way into the vast eternity of space .
unknown to anyone but the audience , there is an evil doctor stowaway determined to sabotage the entire mission .
dr . smith ( gary oldman ) has been hired by a group of rebel conspirators to turn the expedition sour , and dr . smith has re-programmed a talking robot to " destroy robinson family " !
when everything that could go wrong does go wrong for both sides , the spaceship is warped to an unknown destination , and now the premise of being lost in space is complete .
as for the audience , you will likely be lost in boredom by this point , wondering if the plot , like the jupiter 2 , will ever get off the ground .
it's hard to tell who deserves the most blame - the incredibly bland and corny characters or the horrifically lame script ?
chabert is basically the only one to overdo it , sounding like a whiny munchkin on helium .
if you , like me , were convinced by commercials that her voice was altered for some sort of plot twist where her body would be taken over by aliens , you're wrong !
that's just her normal voice !
in yet another example of a " friend " faltering on the big screen , leblanc is so incredibly dull and yet so obviously trying so hard to be so incredibly charming ( make sense ? ) , it makes you want to shove his ass out the escape pod corridor without an escape pod .
graham is a babe - thank goodness there was something for me to think about during this film .
hurt , the black hole of excitement , sucks up any energy that might have been left .
if hurt were available in tablet form , he would be a prescription strength sleeping pill .
johnson isn't dull , he's just lame as the young know it all who winds up saving everybody's ass all the time .
want an example of how cool this kid can be ?
how about when he convinces the robot to think with its heart and reconsider killing the family ?
hey , don't laugh - the thing actually listened to the mr . rogers-would-be-proud sentiment .
but alas , if you thought a character couldn't be much worse , there was rogers as the epitome of generic ( or , mother as she was known ) .
why hire an actress ?
they could've had a white cardboard cutout with the word mom printed on it .
now that would've had some pizzazz !
lost in space luckily doesn't suffer in every single category that it could have .
the special effects are crisp , clear , and at least mildly captivating , unlike any of the presences onscreen save it be oldman , who plays his evil character with a great deal of fun and finesse .
unfortunately , oldman is locked away for most of the film , giving us nothing but ample mocking opportunities to enjoy .
while the special effects are pleasing to the eye , they are nothing you couldn't find in most modern sci-fi films .
contact , for example , far exceeds this film in terms of imagery and imagination .
lost in space just has too many shortcomings to ever be considered a work of cinematic art , with numerous contradictions ( the time travel aspect was horribly flawed ! ) , wooden and corny acting , worse dialogue , and an ending so disappointing , you'd be happier to have seen the entire robinson family get blown to smithereens .
then again , with an ending like this film has , it's obvious a sequel is already being considered .
what an awful note to end on , knowing there could be more of this in a year or two .
the attempt to be family oriented is commendable , but lost in space is lost with the illusion that special effects and the nostalgia of a classic tv series being revisited is enough to satisfy all age groups .
well , danger potential movie goers !
danger !
this movie crash lands without ever breaking thru the atmosphere of mediocrity .
 " desperate measures " is a generic title for a film that's beyond generic .
it's also a depressing waste of talent , with the solid team of michael keaton and andy garcia unthankfully thrown thankless lead roles , not to mention once-cool director barbet schroeder sadly continuing his string of not-cool flicks -- this thriller is more " before and after " than " reversal of fortune . "
the movie is a big disappointment , and yet it's somewhat easy to see what motivated such big names to attach themselves to it -- the premise is both promising and intriguing .
too bad the execution's all wrong , though , because the set-up of " desperate measures " boasts some rather enticing elements that deserve to be put to far better use .
san francisco cop frank connor ( garcia ) is a single parent with a troubling dilemma -- his son matt ( joseph cross ) is stricken with cancer which only a bone marrow transplant can push into remission .
even worse , the only compatible donor is violent sociopath peter mccabe ( michael keaton ) , currently serving a life sentence for multiple murders and other various crimes against society .
connor tries his best to convince mccabe to go along with the surgery ; he's at first reluctant , but reconsiders after he realizes he can plan his escape at the hospital .
when he does make a run for it , connor offers close pursuit , but for different reasons than his superiors ( including the crusty brian cox ) -- they want to take mccabe down , while connor needs to keep him alive , or all hope is lost for his little boy .
one misstep " desperate measures " makes is in its underdevelopment of matt's illness .
what's needed are more details as to exactly why mccabe is the only bone marrow match that works ; there would seem to be other possible contenders somewhere in the country , and thus many of the ways that connor endangers the lives of himself and those around him by attempting to keep mccabe alive are just a little too hard to swallow .
take , for example , a scene where mccabe is trying to make a getaway by climbing over an elevated passage tunnel connecting two sections of the hospital .
the police have their spotlight and guns aimed right on him , and what does connor do ?
he shoots the spotlight out so that mccabe can continue his flight .
connor knows very well what dangerous deeds this guy is capable of , and yet never seems to think that mccabe will eventually get to and try to harm his son .
whatever .
to be fair , though , the lack of story background is the least of the movie's problems .
first and foremost is how cheaply " desperate measures " trades the potential of it's opening scenes for the routine action ballistics of its final hour .
once mccabe escapes , the film becomes the fugitive in reverse and with no thrills .
there are countless scenes where the good guys catch up to keaton only to have him grab a hostage and get away .
also , the movie is so intent on giving you a hoot-inducing , lip-smacking villain ( the ads have compared peter mccabe to hannibal lechter , natch ) that it completely casts garcia's frank connor by the dullsville wayside ; " desperate measures " appears to like its antagonist so much more than its protagonist , and the movie's head-scratcher of a send-off confirms this .
there is some good to be found amongst this mess , particularly in the acting department .
cast against type , michael keaton's understated menace is highly effective .
although he's not given much believable to work with , andy garcia plays off a taut emotional chord .
joseph cross , as garicia's ailing son , is surprisingly unsentimental , and marcia gay harden lends solid support as a doctor who becomes a major player in the unfolding chaos .
this cast does its best to camouflage the sorry plot as it chugs towards an inevitably happy ending , but most is lost .
it goes without saying that " desperate measures " needs an operation of its very own .
 " goodbye , lover " sat on the shelf for almost a year since its lukewarm reception at the cannes film festival last may , and one look will tell you why .
it's a mess .
and that's * way * before ellen degeneres shows up .
the film is one of those torrid double-indemnity crime stories that , in this case , required the services of three screenwriters .
i suspect that one wrote a sexy thriller , one wrote a murder mystery , and one wrote a comedy , then director roland joff ? tried to piece it all together in the editing room while scratching his head in bewilderment .
i didn't laugh at ellen degeneres much ( i think i was supposed to ) .
degeneres is horrible and her character is even worse , a tough-talking vulgar cop with a bad wardrobe and bad hair .
either degeneres is wearing a wig--as most of the actors appear to be--or she doesn't yet have enough clout to secure a hairstylist .
every single word out of her mouth is supposed to be racy and hip , but her incessant wisecracking is poorly-written and merely stupid .
her reaction to the brutal killing of a jogger is " at least she died healthy . "
and that's one of her wittier asides .
degeneres' sgt .
rita pompano is called in to investigate the allegedly accidental death of . . . wait .
to give away too much of the plot would all but ruin a film that has very little going for it outside of its numbing plot twists and multiple triple-crosses .
it's best described this way :
sultry sexpot/real estate agent sandra dunmore ( patricia arquette ) is married to jake , a " creative yet unfocused " ( and alcoholic ) advertising rep , played by dermot mulroney .
sandra likes to act out her deep-seated sexual fantasies and jake's brother ben ( the suave-as-ever don johnson ) likes to help .
ben is also coming on to his petite , mousy co-worker peggy blaine ( mary-louise parker ) and someone , somewhere , is planning to cash in on that huge life insurance policy of his .
the film is ripe with cheating lovers cheating on each other and back again .
although there are some genuine surprises , the plot twists get too contrived too quickly .
probably around the time degeneres' gumcracking gumshoe appears .
at least the former " ellen " star is going for something a little different .
arquette turns in yet another of her stiletto-heeled , platinum blonde bombshell roles ( see : " lost highway , " " true romance " ) while quoting embarrassing lines like " i'm not wearing any underwear . "
i hope she got paid a lot of money to do this .
here's an example of some of the film's flat-out stupidity .
sandra purchases a used car and disguises herself in a red wig prior to stalking two of the film's duplicitous lovers .
she drives the motorbiking couple off a cliff while blaring her favorite " the sound of music " on her car stereo , intent on identifying herself to her hapless victims .
so what was the point of the wig and the car ?
 " the sound of music " stuff might be a reference to " the wizard of oz " allusions in david lynch's " wild at heart , " but if so joff ? must have forgotten that " wild at heart " was a despicable movie .
it's hard to believe that " goodbye , lover " was directed by the same person who made " the killing fields " and " the mission . "
it's not , however , hard to see why it sat on the shelf for so long .
it should have stayed there .
capsule : the much anticipated re-adaptation of the pierre boulle novel comes to the screen as a dark and a little dreary film with lots of chases and fighting , but very little intelligence .
visually there is much to like about this version , but the approach is to take an adventure after the style of gulliver's travels and treat it as an action film .
that makes it a film without much center .
 , 0 ( -4 to +4 )
pierre boulle , author of the bridge on the river kwai , wrote planet of the apes ( a . k . a . monkey planet ) , the novel , as a social satire .
it reads a lot like a fifth book of gulliver's travels .
humans discover a planet in which the roles of apes and humans have been reversed , not unlike the roles of horses and humans on jonathan swift's island of the houyhnhnms .
the novel moves somewhat slowly to create some suspense in revealing all the things most film fans know to be true about the nature of the planet .
it seems to me there is also a statement about human cruelty to animals , but perhaps i was just looking for that .
when rod serling adapted the novel into a film released in 1968 , he added a number of serling touches , familiar from episodes of the twilight zone and changed the ending to make it more serling-ish .
the final irony of the original version has become film history .
without it there could never have been a " planet of the apes " film series .
i can surmise only that serling ran into serious script problems in how to handle the tricky question of language .
in the book the apes had their own language and the human eventually learned that language .
that could have been done in the film , but that would have required the entire film to be subtitled for the non-ape-speaking .
serling avoided this by having the apes speak english and , of course , there is some justification for that by the end of the film .
justifying why the apes spoke english may have even been the inspiration for his surprise ending .
but serling never tackles the all-important question of why a supposedly intelligent human never shows any curiosity or even surprise that the apes speak his own language , a language they had no opportunity to ever hear .
few viewers questioned this serious plot hole , however , and the film has become well respected in cinema history .
partial credit at least should go to jerry goldsmith whose extremely inventive score is one of goldsmith's best if not his best .
when the film's success called for sequels , the filmmakers turned up the violence and they added well-intentioned , though not very subtle , political messages about what was happening in the united states of the 1960s and 1970s .
while the first film had a little shooting of guns and what was there seemed a little half- hearted , by the second film , beneath the planet of the apes , there was a good deal more violence and from that point on the series had a lot of violence and chases .
the series concluded with battle for the planet of the apes in 1973 .
now director tim burton tries his hand at adapting the original book again .
for those who thought that the 1968 version was not very faithful to the book , burton's new version is even less faithful .
first , he does not really reverse the roles of the humans and the apes .
he has them both be intelligent , articulate races battling for a dominance of the planet currently in the hands , uh , make that paws , of the apes .
that could be a good story too , but it is not planet of the apes .
as with the mission impossible films and so many other cinematic homages to the third quarter of the last century , the title makes promises that the filmmakers have no intention of honoring .
in 2029 leo davidson ( mark wahlberg , not this world's most expressive actor ) works on a space station increasing the intelligence and usefulness of apes .
then a convenient time storm sweeps him up wizard-of-oz-fashion and drops him on an alien planet .
 ( yes , he survives this storm , but then no storm is perfect . )
he quickly finds , not greatly to any surprise he shows , that on this planet apes rule and humans drool , but everybody talks .
and the language they talk is earth- english .
apparently it does not even occur to leo that there is a mystery that needs to be explained about that .
the fact it does not occur to leo and apparently didn't occur to tim burton either is the heart of the real horror of this film .
both just assumed that if apes were going to talk the language they would speak would be english .
in any case having one talking race dominating another makes this not a look at human-animal relationships and more one of the master-slave relationships .
outside of sudan and a few other countries this is a less relevant topic .
leo is captured to be used as a slave but also is discovered by ari , played by helena bonham carter .
ari is an attractive ape with close ties to high political power .
she is bent on making the world a better place .
perhaps in a previous draft of the script she was called hil-ari .
in any case with makeup that stifles her usual pout , carter is just about as attractive as she has ever been in a film .
she may want to consider this to become her standard look from this point forward .
it is not long before leo escapes with some human and only a couple of sympathetic apes .
this is a further abandonment of the source material .
the chase severely limits the interplay of ape and human and the examination of each's place in this reversed society , each important in the book .
we cannot see how the society works because most of the screentime society has broken down .
we see the humans either separated from the apes or fighting them .
burton chooses visceral thrills over cerebral ones at almost every turn .
this is a miscalculation , as characters so lacking in empathy value are difficult ones to place much emotional investment in .
they are basically chess pieces and the viewer has little reason to root for them to win .
the 1968 script had little subtlety , with lines like " i never met an ape i didn't like , " but at least we cared for what happened to taylor , the main character .
most of what this film has to offer is in the visuals .
the visual work is spotty but generally nicely done except that so much of the film takes place in the night or in fog .
this tends to limit close looks at the makeup .
in general it seems much improved from 1968 .
the makeup team is led by rick baker instead of john chambers , who did it for the 1968 version .
in 1968 chambers makeup was a jaw-dropper .
it was realistic enough to almost be believable but flexible enough to show emotion .
chambers is good , but if anyone had a chance to best him it would have to be baker .
today audiences have higher expectations ; baker's visualization is really an improvement .
these visuals work nicely .
what does not work is the wire- assisted leaps some of the apes make .
they look like they were inspired by the physics- defying leaps of crouching tiger , hidden dragon .
apes spring incredible distances .
some of the best scenes are apes running into battle looking like they have ape posture , but when they start flying through the air the effect is lost .
one final visual problem is that the film frequently shows its budget in what should be spectacular battle scenes the camera shows us only a small group of people close-up .
since the days of lon chaney and boris karloff few actors have crossed over to stardom in a role that required heavy make-up .
the one actor who has a shot is paul giamatti .
it is not that his lines are so good , most are silly jokes .
but he delivers them very well .
he was always a watchable actor , but has not yet made stardom .
as the ape-trader limbo he over-emotes to overcome his ape make-up , but does it very well .
in doing so he makes himself the most interesting thing on the screen .
he is probably the best thing in the film and conjures up memories of peter ustinov's performance in spartacus .
as an in-joke there are several lines in the script borrowed from the 1968 film and an old ape played by charleton heston becomes an allusion to the first film by itself .
danny elfman's score has a nice primitive feel , but jerry goldsmith's 1968 tour de force score is a real classic .
that score and the whole film will be remembered when the 2001 film is forgotten .
i rate the remake 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .