the bachelor	Finally watched yesterday's episode of the bachelor and so happy with who went home 	CA
the bachelor	Trump's treating it more like "The Bachelor". I expect him to hand out a rose 	TX
stranger things	RT Stranger Things: Season 2. 	LA
daily show	RT You should watch the daily show tonight I feel like 	CA
hidden figures	RT not enough people have seen moonlight or hidden figures. do your soul a huge favor and actively seek to watch them both 	ID
la la land	Crouere's 18TH in LA LA LAND; JBE takes bait, pulls hook; Entergy; CEO ; Edwards vs. Harris; 2 GOP Sen.... - 	LA
stranger things	People Are Stranger Things 	MA
westworld	djawadi's film score arrangements are great as well! Motion Picture Soundtrack in episode 6 of Westworld made me cry 😭 	CA
sneaky pete	man in the high castle and sneaky Pete 	AZ
big bang theory	PlexPy: New Episode The Big Bang Theory - The Emotion Detection Automation S10E14 [TV-PG] 20 minutes [Feb 2017] 	RI
big bang theory	PlexPy: New Episode The Big Bang Theory - The Emotion Detection Automation S10E14 [TV-PG] 20 minutes [Feb 2017] 	RI
breaking bad	Breaking Bad. I'm at the very end of the series and its basically just one big shit fest 	OH
law and order svu	I love law and order svu, never gets old ... 	LA
stranger things	RT rain drop drop top now that i have your attention stranger things season 2 comes out this year and i am ready for this… 	OH
sneaky pete	Sneaky Pete is my showww 	FL
la la land	My fav thing is when people play the piano while I'm at work and today someone was playing Mia &amp; Sebastian's theme from La La Land😍 	CA
how to get away with murder	RT someone please bless us with cable so we can watch how to get away with murder 	WA
stranger things	RT rain drop drop top now that i have your attention stranger things season 2 comes out this year and i am ready for this… 	CA
la la land	For anyone who's out there taking the risk and going for the dream, we're screening La La Land, nominated for 14 os… 	CA
la la land	your fave is problematic: me •never leaves the house •ordered the la la land soundtrack on vinyl •????? •idk overall just a POS 	MO